# Mendelian-Randomization-Intracranial-Hemorrhage
Abstract: Over 88% of stroke-related deaths are caused by intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). Currently, there is a myriad of observational analyses and evidence that investigates the association between various exposures or risk factors and the outcome, ICH. However, a severe underlying issue with correlational studies is the risk of confounding variables. Confounders lead to invalid results and are often difficult to measure due to the sheer number of them. I implemented a Mendelian Randomization analysis in order to uncover causal relationships between ICH and various risk factors by eliminating the worry of confounding variables. Specifically, I utilized the IVW, MR-Egger, weighted median and mode, and simple mode statistical models to find causal relationships. For risk factors displaying high pleiotropy amongst its variants, I implemented a contamination mixture method. Strong causal relations were observed between hypertension and ICH and body-mass index (BMI) and ICH. Additionally, there was no significant causal association between high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) and ICH. Finally, the results displayed a significant, inverse causal association between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) and ICH, via the contamination mixture method, implying that low levels of LDL-c caused a greater risk of ICH. In essence, through the Mendelian Randomization study, not only did I find causal relationships between various risk factors and ICH leading to better detection and treatments, but it also aided in finding evidence to how clinical treatments, such as the prescription of statins, may need to be revised.
